# Color Sort!
#### Team Name:
color_sort
#### Members:
* Shanna Wallace (netid: swalla16 | GitHub: shannaw04) 
* Coleman Oates (netid: coates4 | GitHub: coates4)
* Landon Boone (netid: tww489 | GitHub:)
* Logan Lett (netid: llett3 | GitHub: 10-Squares)

## Introduction
### What is Color Sort?
Color Sort is a puzzle game that starts with blocks of various colors shuffled up in bottles. You are given 1 empty bottle if there are 2 or 3 colors to be sorted and 2 empty bottles if there are 4+ colors.<br>

The objective of the game is to sort all of the colors so that all blocks of the same color are in the same bottle.

### Market Context
Color Sort is a classic puzzle game, and there are a variety of Color Sorting games already available on the Google Play store. Unfortunately, most of these contain a gratuitous number of ads. Some of the apps that charge a fee for ad-free play will still require adds for certain features such as undoing moves or resetting levels. <br>
Additionally, many existing color sorting game apps don't allow the user to customize the difficulty level.

### Motivation
Our goal is to build a Color Sort mobile app this is fun to play, easy to use, and offers full functionality with no ads. 

### Planned Features
* Ability to reset levels
* Ability to undo moves
* Save user's progress when they leave the app
* Options for increasing/decreasing difficulty level

## Customer Value
The project from the customer's perspective is simply a puzzle game that increments in difficulty the longer the user plays the game and progresses. It is a form of entertainment and fun for the customer, providing an experience to entertain and possibly strengthen the mind of the customer as well.

### What need does it fill
The project fulfills the need for the customer's entertainment and time consumption.

### Who is customer and what do they want
The customer is anyone tech-savvy enough to download games off of the Google Play or App Store coupled with people interested in and entertained by puzzle games. The customer wants a way to entertain themselves and challenge themselves with puzzles as well.

### How will customer benefit
The customer, interested in entertainment and a challenge, will benefit from this app because this app provides a free and easily accessible way for the user to entertain themselves since the app is simple and doesn't need to use internet.

### Does it provide new capabilities or improvements for customer
The app does not provide new capabilites, there are countless other puzzle games available on mobile marketplaces but the app provides the improvement of not needing internet access, as many apps currently require your device to be online. Another improvment is the fact that the app will not contain advertisements, which are an annoyance and take away from the experience of a game.

### Customer-centric Measures of Success
Success will be defined by two chief measures by the customer. The first measure of success is the consumer's attitude towards the amount of fun they have playing the game. If the player doesn't have any fun in playing the game, then there's really no point in making the game available to play in the first place. The second measure of success is the customer's readiness to continue playing the game. If the game doesn't have any staying power, or if the player gets bored very quickly, then the game won't have any staying power in any financial market of success, even if the app isn't meant for making money.

### How will we know if customers got benefits we wanted to provide
We will know if the customers got the benefits we wanted to provide if the customer is entertained for a sustained period of time by our game and if the customer exhibits satisfaction at solving the game's puzzles.


## section 3: proposed solution and technology
### What the project does from the developer’s perspective

This game will, using a .txt file generated by a linked program, instance N bottle scenes their child scenes of N different colored blocks in a game level, with N and the number of blocks instanced being specified by the .txt file read. Upon level generation, using a move script activated by a screen touch, the user will be prompted to sort the different color blocks into any bottle, until each bottle contains blocks of one sole color. Depending on the difficulty selected, the map generation program will read in different parameters from a pre-defined instruction set, such as a smaller / larger number of colors for blocks, more / less blocks, etc. In addition, this program will save the user's place upon moving, allowing the user to leave and re-enter the application at the same move they left on and revert to previously made moves, with a final "save" system to be determined. Upon completion of a level, a new level will be generated from the same set of instructions the user previously chose based on the difficulty. From the home screen, the user will be able to change difficulties as they please.



* high level block diagram of systems's architecture


*
### Minimal System Requirements
The minimal sysem, at its base case, will generate a playable level in which the game generates a level based on a given .txt. A move function will be implemented allowing the user to move the different blocks between bottles, and a rudimentary save
function will be attached to the move function's script that rewrites the generated .txt to update the new position of the block, so that if the user closes the application before completing a level, upon reopening the application, the user's previous position will be restored. Upon successfully sorting the blocks into bottles, the game will show a victory screen before generating a new level.

### Main Components and Descriptions
-  Level Generation
    - The program will generate a level based on a given instruction set and output this instruction set to a .txt file
    - From this text file, X number of bottles and colors, and Y number of blocks will populate the screen
-  Difficulty selection
    - Acts as a config for the level generator
    - Based on the difficulty selected, the level generator will add more or less colors and blocks to the level generation's config
- Move function
    - Selecting the top block from the bottle, the user will be able to choose which bottle to move the block to
- Save function
    - Allows the user to save their last move in a level in order to return to at a later time.
    - Initially will be implemented by writing to the level's .txt used to generate the level upon entering the game
    - Will allow the user to revert to previously made moves
    - Planned to be attached to the move function, to create a save on moves 


### Testing
- Level Generation testing
    - Ensure a functional upper and lower limit for # of block colors, # of blocks, and bottles
    - Ensure a functional check that a level generation .txt is operational
-  Difficulty Selection
    - Ensure the instruction set used to generate a level is reflected by the difficulty setting selected IE the difficulty setting changes which instruction set is used
- Move Function
    - Check that any illegal moves cannot be made such as placing a block outside a bottle, moving a bottle itself, or moving a block that isnt on the top of the stack in a bottle.
- Save function
    - Ensure the "board" positions are saved upon each move
    - Ensure at the start of a new game, if the game is restarted, the loaded board is the newly generated level instead of the previous move of the preceding level.
    - Ensure functionality of reverting moves, making sure that the furthest back one can revert is the beginning of the level
- Win Condition
    - Ensure the game correctly displays a victory message upon sorting all blocks.

### Possible Improvements / New Features
- Implement Gamemodes
    - 1-100 levels of progressively increasing difficulty
    - Timed: Try and solve as many puzzles as possible in a timeframe
    - Endless: Generates new levels endlessly upon solving the puzzle.
    - Limited Moves: Based on the difficulty, have a certain # of moves before having to restart the level.


### Tools
 - Godot Game Engine
 - C++  (in order to generate level .txt files)
## Team Members
* Coleman Oates - C++ and Java, no experience with Godot
* Logan Lett - C++, C, a little app development experience, no experience with Godot.
* Landon Boone - C++, brief experience with Java, Python, gdScript
* Shanna Wallace - 
* Experience - Landon has expierence with Godot 3.5 developing a game (not mobile), while everyone
 else is new to Godot. None of us has expierence with mobile app development.

## section 5: project management
* who's working on what and when
* weekly schedule for tasks and deadlines
* We will meet as a group every Monday 3-5 P.M
* Our game color sort should have no constraints ethically nor legally, it is just a simple mobile game.
* Required Resources: Godot 
* Should have no problem implementing the full game before deadline.
